Hello and welcome back. In this section, we are going to learn how to disable ASLR,
also known as address space layout randomization. So ASLR must be disabled from two aspects.
You have the system level ASLR and also the program level ASLR. If we just disable the
system level ASLR, the program level ASLR, if it's enabled, will still override the system level
and the effect will still be there. So in order to properly disable the ASLR,
we have to disable not only the system level settings, but we also need to disable it in
the individual programs for every single software or program that we run. We have to go into the
program and modify its header to disable it. So for the system level, if we want to disable the ASLR,
we have to go into the exploit protection menu. Over there we can disable it.
So the exploit protection menu looks like this. We have the system settings and you have to go
to the menu item called force randomization for images mandatory ASLR and then click on
this drop down list here and select off by default and then do the same thing for the
other menu item called randomize memory allocations bottom up ASLR click the drop down
list here select off by default so you need to do this change both of these two settings here
after you have done that you need to restart reboot your pc then you have disabled the system
level ASLR and then for every single program that has got ASLR enabled you need to modify the
program header file. There is a certain part of the program header file called the dll characteristics
so the dll characteristics is part of the field of the pe header and the dll characteristics
consists of a two byte field and you need to modify the lower byte. So, every exe file every
executable file for windows has got a structure called the pe file format structure so the header
of the file for every executable file looks like this. It has a header, the DOS stub. And then you
have the PE header and the rest of the sections, various sections and the DLL characteristics
is found in this location here, under this here. So DLL characteristics consist of two bytes.
If you were to open any PE file, PE files mean any executable file that runs on Windows
and go to that dll characteristics if you were to open it with the detect it
easy program and go to the dll characteristics you
will be able to view it so you can see here for this particular
example the 2 byte value is 81 and 60. 81 is the higher byte and 60 is the
lower byte so it is the lower byte that we are
interested in if the lower byte value is from hex 40
to 0x7f. That means it falls anywhere between these two values, including these two values,
then, it means that ASLR is enabled. So to disable the program's ASLR, all we need to do is
minus 0x40 from this value. So take this example here. The DLL characteristics lower byte is 0x60.
to disable this program we just minus hex 40 and so it becomes hex 20 so we just need to change
this value to hex 20 and the ASLR will have been disabled for this program. So that's it.
So remember, in summary, to disable ASLR completely you have to disable it at the system level
and also for each individual program that you want to run.
So that concludes this video.
In the next one, we'll be doing some hands-on practical
so that all this will become clearer to you.
That's all for this video.
Thank you for watching.